.TH MT2MSEED 1 2008/07/08
.SH NAME
Magnetrotelluric bin file to Mini-SEED converter

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
mt2mseed [options] file1 [file2 file3 ...]

.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBmt2mseed\fP converts Magnetotelluric (MT) bin file time series data
to Mini-SEED format.  If an input file name is prefixed with an '@'
character the file is assumed to contain a list of input data files,
see \fILIST FILES\fP below.

Unless a single output file is specified using the \fB-o\fP option an
output file will be created for each contiguous segment of data.

.SH OPTIONS

.IP "-V         "
Print program version and exit.

.IP "-h         "
Print program usage and exit.

.IP "-v         "
Be more verbose.  This flag can be used multiple times ("-v -v" or
"-vv") for more verbosity.

.IP "-S         "
Include SEED blockette 100 in each output record with the sample rate
in floating point format.  The basic format for storing sample rates
in SEED data records is a rational approximation
(numerator/denominator).  Precision will be lost if a given sample
rate cannot be well approximated.  This option should be used in those
cases.

.IP "-n \fInetwork\fP"
Specify the SEED network code to use, if not specified the network
code will be blank.  It is highly recommended to specify a network
code.

.IP "-s \fIstation\fP"
Specify the SEED station code to use, if not specified the station
code will be blank.  It is highly recommended to specify a network
code.

.IP "-l \fIlocation\fP"
Specify the SEED location ID to use, if not specified the location
code will be blank.

.IP "-r \fIbytes\fP"
Specify the Mini-SEED record length in \fIbytes\fP, default is 4096.

.IP "-e \fIencoding\fP"
Specify the Mini-SEED data encoding format, default is 10 (Steim-1
compression).  Other supported encoding formats include 11 (Steim-2
compression) and 3 (32-bit integers).

.IP "-b \fIbyteorder\fP"
Specify the Mini-SEED byte order, default is 1 (big-endian or most
significant byte first).  The other option is 0 (little-endian or
least significant byte first).  It is highly recommended to always
create big-endian SEED.

.IP "-o \fIoutfile\fP"
Specify a single output file that all Mini-SEED records should be
written to, existing file will be overwritten.

.SH LIST FILES
If an input file is prefixed with an '@' character the file is assumed
to contain a list of file for input.  Multiple list files can be
combined with multiple input files on the command line.  The last,
space separated field on each line is assumed to be the file name to
be read.

An example of a simple text list:

.nf
XY123.bin
XY124.bin
XY125.bin
.fi

.SH AUTHORS
.nf
Chad Trabant, IRIS Data Management Center

Anna Kelbert, COAS/OSU
.fi
